[Alerting] Search alert (#88528)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/alerting/alert-types.asciidoc

Users will need `all` access to the *Stack Alerts* feature to be able to create and edit any of the alerts listed below.
See <<kibana-feature-privileges, feature privileges>> for more information on configuring roles that provide access to this feature. 

> Currently {kib} provides two stack alert: the <<alert-type-index-threshold>> type and the <<alert-type-es-query>> type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently {kib} provides two stack alerts: <<alert-type-index-threshold>> and <<alert-type-es-query>>.
```

[float]
[[alert-type-es-query]]
=== ES query

The ES query alert type is designed to run a user-configured {es} query over indices, compare the number of matches to a configured threshold, and schedule
actions to run when the threshold condition is met.

[float]
==== Creating the alert

An ES query alert can be created from the *Create* button in the <<alert-management, alert management UI>>. Fill in the <<defining-alerts-general-details, general alert details>>, then select *ES query*.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/alert-types-es-query-select.png[Choosing an ES query alert type]

[float]
==== Defining the conditions

The ES query alert has 4 clauses that define the condition to detect.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/alert-types-es-query-conditions.png[Four clauses define the condition to detect]

Index:: This clause requires an *index or index pattern* and a *time field* that will be used for the *time window*.
ES query:: This clause specifies the ES DSL query to execute. The number of documents that match this query will be evaulated against the threshold
condition. Aggregations are not supported at this time. 

> Threshold:: This clause defines a threshold value and a comparison operator  (one of `is above`, `is above or equals`, `is below`, `is below or equals`, or `is between`). The number of documents that match the specified query is compared to this threshold. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Threshold:: This clause defines a threshold value and a comparison operator  (`is above`, `is above or equals`, `is below`, `is below or equals`, or `is between`). The number of documents that match the specified query is compared to this threshold. 
```

Time window:: This clause determines how far back to search for documents, using the *time field* set in the *index* clause. Generally this value should be set to a value higher than the *check every* value in the <<defining-alerts-general-details, general alert details>>, to avoid gaps in detection. 

[float]
==== Testing your query

Use the *Test query* feature to verify that your query DSL is valid.

When your query is valid:: Valid queries will be executed against the configured *index* using the configured *time window*. The number of documents that

> matched the query will be displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
match the query will be displayed.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/alert-types-es-query-valid.png[Test ES query returns number of matches when valid]

> When your query is invalid:: An error message with reason will be shown in the case of invalid queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your query is invalid:: An error message is shown if the query is invalid.
```
